# CSGO Blog for Udacity Project

Code for blog post on Medium.

### Libraries used in the project
Pandas, Numpy, Matplotlib, Seaborn

### Motivation for the project
The project is part of a Udacity Nanodegree in Data Science. I had first
intended to use one of the suggested data sets of AirBnB data, but decided I
would rather investigate something I was more interested in personally. I'm a
keen gamer, and eSports is really breaking into the mainstream these days. Lots
of data is generated by games, and OpenAI is one example of deep learning
being used to create AI powerful enough to beat the best human players in games.
My 'business' understanding of the topic is also quite strong, as I used to be
a professional gamer back in the early days of counter-strike. The game has
evolved, but the core remains the same, so I believe I can bring some insight to
the subject and understand what the data is telling me.

I have not used machine learning for this project, as I felt I didn't have to do
so to answer the questions I posed. There are however lots of interesting
applications for machine learning here as well, and it would be interesting to
see if predictions provided by ML would yield different conclusions than my own.

### Files in the repository
CSGO_mirage.ipynb - Jupyter notebook containing the code used for the blog post
README.md - This file, providing some documentation for the project
demos_mirage.csv, map_data.csv - Data sets mined from matchmaking demos

### Summary of the results of the project
I found that pistol round tactics differ from normal rounds, and that site B is
more often the target in pistol rounds than in normal rounds. One possible
conclusion to this is than the CTs could benefit from overloading the defense
on site B in the pistol rounds.

We also looked at common pistol round buys, and found  that most players
prioritize kevlar armor and utility.

Finally the data revealed that the bomb is planted more frequently in pistol
rounds than in normal rounds, and more often on site B than on site A. A defuse
kit is a valuable item in pistol rounds.

### Acknowledgments.
I couldn't have completed the project without the great datasets provided by
skihikingkevin on kaggle:
https://www.kaggle.com/skihikingkevin/csgo-matchmaking-damage
